docs/Appendix-A.rst, before:

.. highlight:: none

Appendix - A Using the 'gen' Program
====================================


The 'gen' program is the primary interface to the OpenPOWER Cluster Genesis software.
Help can be accessed by typing::

    gen -h
    or
    gen --help

Usage;
gen [--help | -h] <command> [<args>]

Auto completion is enabled for the gen functions.

The gen program provides the following
functions;

    - log
      Displays the log file associated with Genesis network setup and container install.
    - logc
      Displays the Genesis container log which logs activities associated with OS deployment
      and cluster node configuration.
    - loga [<-f | +F>]
      Displays the log file generated by Genesis' ansible playbooks.  Normally displays the end
      of the file.  By using the -f or +F options, you or another user can monitor (ie tail) the
      progress of the Genesis installation from another window.
    - status
      Displays information about the status of the Genesis installation including information about
      the Genesis container, the bridges Genesis creates in the deployer and information about
      the state of the DHCP server (including leased addresses) and information about the cobbler
      program including operating systems deployed and in progress.
    - deploy [<-p>]
      This command runs all of the ansible playbooks necessary to configure the
      management switch, create the container for Genesis' deploy functions
      to run in and deploy operating systems to the cluster nodes. When run with the -p option,
      Genesis will prompt you if you want to continue after each playbook runs.  The
      playbooks run are;

        - enable-mgmt-switch
        - lxc-create
        - install_1
        - install_2

      Note that these playbooks can be run individually.  ie;
      gen enable-mgmt-switch. This can be useful when debugging or if you do not have time
      to complete the entire deploy process for instance.
    - enable-mgmt-switch
      Runs the enable-mgmt-switch ansible playbook.  Prepares the management
      switch for use by Genesis.
    - lxc-create
      Runs the lxc-create ansible playbook.  Creates the container for Genesis
      to run in and installs the needed software.
    - install_1
      Runs the install_1 ansible playbook which performs the first phase of OS
      deployment. Node discovery and mac address
      association is performed during this phase. If introspection is enabled,
      it is run during this step.
    - install_2
      Runs the install_2 ansible playbook which performs the second phase of OS
      deployment. Actual OS deployment occurs during this phase.
    - config.yml
      Displays the config.yml file.
    - inventory
      Displays the inventory.yml file created by Cluster Genesis.
    - show_mgmt_switches
      Displays select configuration information of a cluster management switch.
      Information includes display of management interfaces, configuration of the
      port connecting to the Genesis deployer node and vlan information for the
      Genesis VLANs. If multiple management switches are defined, a list of switches
      is displayed and the user is prompted to select a switch.
    - --help or -h
      Displays help for the gen program
    - post-deploy [<-p>]
      This command runs all of the ansible playbooks which perform post OS
      deploy activities. These activities include configuration of network
      interfaces on cluster nodes, copying of SSH keys to cluster nodes,
      configuring VLANs on data switches and running 'bootstrap' scripts
      on cluster nodes. When run with the -p option, Genesis will prompt you
      if you want to continue after each playbook runs.  The following
      playbooks are run;

        - ssh_keyscan
        - gather_mac_addresses
        - set_data_switch_config
        - configure_operating_systems

    - ssh_keyscan
      Runs the ssh_keyscan ansible playbook. Gathers hostkeys from all client
      nodes and appends the hostkeys to the known_hosts file on each client node.
    - gather_mac_addresses
      Runs the gather_mac_addresses ansible playbook.  Gathers mac addresses
      from data switches for all client node interfaces.
      Genesis uses this information to accurately rename client node interfaces.
    - set_data_switch_config
      Runs the set_data_switch_config ansible playbook.  Configures the
      cluster data switches including LAG, MLAG and VLANs.
    - configure_operating_systems
      Runs the configure_operating_systems ansible playbook. Configures client
      node network interfaces, transfers SSH keys to client
      nodes, copies the inventory.yml file to select cluster nodes and runs
      bootstrap scripts on specified cluster nodes.
    - post-deploy-passive
      This command performs the same functions as the post-deploy command,
      but does not access the management switches.

Commit message:

feat: Allow deployment without mgmt switch access
Management switches can be set to "passive" mode to allow deployment
without supplying login credentials to the switch management interfaces.
This mode requires the user to manually write switch MAC address tables
to file and to configure the management switch **before** starting a
Cluster Genesis deploy.

To configure passive switches simply omit 'userid-mgmt-switch' from
'config.yml'. The 'ipaddr-mgmt-switch' dictionary still needs to be
defined in order to be used as a switch identifier. In place of IP
addresses anything may be used as long as each switch has a unique
value. Passive management switch mode also requires setting
'label-mgmt-switch-external-dev' in 'config.yml'.

Change-Id: Ie3dc5a8f2160605e1312d70fda76325a187d414e

docs/Appendix-A.rst, after:

.. highlight:: none

Appendix - A Using the 'gen' Program
====================================


The 'gen' program is the primary interface to the OpenPOWER Cluster Genesis software.
Help can be accessed by typing::

    gen -h
    or
    gen --help

Usage;
gen [--help | -h] <command> [<args>]

Auto completion is enabled for the gen functions.

The gen program provides the following
functions;

    - log
      Displays the log file associated with Genesis network setup and container install.
    - logc
      Displays the Genesis container log which logs activities associated with OS deployment
      and cluster node configuration.
    - loga [<-f | +F>]
      Displays the log file generated by Genesis' ansible playbooks.  Normally displays the end
      of the file.  By using the -f or +F options, you or another user can monitor (ie tail) the
      progress of the Genesis installation from another window.
    - status
      Displays information about the status of the Genesis installation including information about
      the Genesis container, the bridges Genesis creates in the deployer and information about
      the state of the DHCP server (including leased addresses) and information about the cobbler
      program including operating systems deployed and in progress.
    - deploy [<-p>]
      This command runs all of the ansible playbooks necessary to configure the
      management switch, create the container for Genesis' deploy functions
      to run in and deploy operating systems to the cluster nodes. When run with the -p option,
      Genesis will prompt you if you want to continue after each playbook runs.  The
      playbooks run are;

        - enable-mgmt-switch
        - lxc-create
        - install_1
        - install_2

      Note that these playbooks can be run individually.  ie;
      gen enable-mgmt-switch. This can be useful when debugging or if you do not have time
      to complete the entire deploy process for instance.
    - deploy-passive [<-p>]
      This command performs the same functions as the deploy command, but does
      not access the management switches.
    - deploy-passive-retry [<-p>]
      If deploy-passive fails due to incomplete MAC address table(s) this will
      reset all servers (power off / set bootdev pxe / power on) to allow the
      user another chance to collect MAC address tables.
    - enable-mgmt-switch
      Runs the enable-mgmt-switch ansible playbook.  Prepares the management
      switch for use by Genesis.
    - lxc-create
      Runs the lxc-create ansible playbook.  Creates the container for Genesis
      to run in and installs the needed software.
    - install_1
      Runs the install_1 ansible playbook which performs the first phase of OS
      deployment. Node discovery and mac address
      association is performed during this phase. If introspection is enabled,
      it is run during this step.
    - install_2
      Runs the install_2 ansible playbook which performs the second phase of OS
      deployment. Actual OS deployment occurs during this phase.
    - config.yml
      Displays the config.yml file.
    - inventory
      Displays the inventory.yml file created by Cluster Genesis.
    - show_mgmt_switches
      Displays select configuration information of a cluster management switch.
      Information includes display of management interfaces, configuration of the
      port connecting to the Genesis deployer node and vlan information for the
      Genesis VLANs. If multiple management switches are defined, a list of switches
      is displayed and the user is prompted to select a switch.
    - --help or -h
      Displays help for the gen program
    - post-deploy [<-p>]
      This command runs all of the ansible playbooks which perform post OS
      deploy activities. These activities include configuration of network
      interfaces on cluster nodes, copying of SSH keys to cluster nodes,
      configuring VLANs on data switches and running 'bootstrap' scripts
      on cluster nodes. When run with the -p option, Genesis will prompt you
      if you want to continue after each playbook runs.  The following
      playbooks are run;

        - ssh_keyscan
        - gather_mac_addresses
        - set_data_switch_config
        - configure_operating_systems

    - ssh_keyscan
      Runs the ssh_keyscan ansible playbook. Gathers hostkeys from all client
      nodes and appends the hostkeys to the known_hosts file on each client node.
    - gather_mac_addresses
      Runs the gather_mac_addresses ansible playbook.  Gathers mac addresses
      from data switches for all client node interfaces.
      Genesis uses this information to accurately rename client node interfaces.
    - set_data_switch_config
      Runs the set_data_switch_config ansible playbook.  Configures the
      cluster data switches including LAG, MLAG and VLANs.
    - configure_operating_systems
      Runs the configure_operating_systems ansible playbook. Configures client
      node network interfaces, transfers SSH keys to client
      nodes, copies the inventory.yml file to select cluster nodes and runs
      bootstrap scripts on specified cluster nodes.
    - post-deploy-passive [<-p>]
      This command performs the same functions as the post-deploy command,
      but does not access the data switches.
