docs/Multi-Tenant.rst, before:

.. highlight:: none

Multiple Tenant Support
=======================

POWER-Up has the ability to segment a physical cluster into multiple isolated
groups of nodes, allowing multiple users / tenants to use the cluster at the same
time while maintaining complete isolation between tenants.

The process of sub-dividing a cluster into multiple groups is simple. You create a
config.yml file for each group of nodes and deploy the groups one at a time. Each
group must have a unique PXE and IPMI subnet and vlan number. The mgmt network can
be common for all groups. POWER-Up creates a container and isolated networks on the
deployer for each tenant in the cluster. A symbolic link to the inventory.yml file
for each group is created in the power-up directory with the name inventoryn.yml
where n is the number of the pxe vlan for the group.

    .. _fig-multi-tenant:

    .. figure:: _images/MultiTenantCluster.png
        :height: 350
        :align: center

        POWER-Up Support for multiple tenants

As an example, the figure above shows a basic cluster with four nodes. To configure
these into two groups of two nodes, create a config file for each group. Edit the
deployer section of the config file and under the client subsection, specify a
unique container_ipaddr, bridge_ipaddr and vlan for the ipmi and pxe networks
for each group of nodes.

For example, the two groups could be configured as below;

Group 1::

    deployer:
        networks:
            mgmt:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  interface_ipaddr: 192.168.16.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
            client:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: ipmi
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.30.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.30.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 30
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: pxe
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.40.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.40.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 40


Group 2::

    deployer:
        networks:
            mgmt:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  interface_ipaddr: 192.168.16.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
            client:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: ipmi
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.31.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.31.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 31
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: pxe
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.41.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.41.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 41


Next, edit the switch ports list in the node_templates section of the config file;

Group 1::

    node_templates:
        - label: ubuntu1604-node
          ipmi:
              userid: ADMIN
              password: admin
          os:
              profile: ubuntu-16.04-server-ppc64el
              users:
                  - name: user1
                    password: $6$Utk.IILMG9.$EepS/sIgD4aA.qYQ3voZL9yI3/5Q4vv.p2s4sSmfCLAJlLAuaEmXDizDaBmJYGqHpobwpU2l4rJW.uUY4WNyv.
                    groups: sudo
              install_device: /dev/sdj
          physical_interfaces:
              ipmi:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    ports:
                        - 1
                        - 3
              pxe:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    interface: pxe-ifc
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 2
                        - 4
              data:
                  - switch: data1
                    interface: static_1
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 5
                        - 6

Group 2::

    node_templates:
        - label: ubuntu1604-node
          ipmi:
              userid: ADMIN
              password: admin
          os:
              profile: ubuntu-16.04-server-ppc64el
              users:
                  - name: user1
                    password: $6$Utk.IILMG9.$EepS/sIgD4aA.qYQ3voZL9yI3/5Q4vv.p2s4sSmfCLAJlLAuaEmXDizDaBmJYGqHpobwpU2l4rJW.uUY4WNyv.
                    groups: sudo
              install_device: /dev/sdj
          physical_interfaces:
              ipmi:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    ports:
                        - 5
                        - 7
              pxe:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    interface: pxe-ifc
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 6
                        - 8
              data:
                  - switch: data1
                    interface: static_1
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 7
                        - 9
              data:
                  - switch: data1
                    interface: static_2
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 8
                        - 10

For a complete config file for a basic cluster, See :ref:`Appendix-D <appendix_d>`

Assuming your two config files are named config-T1.yml and config.T2.yml and
residing in the power-up directory, to deploy the two groups::

    cp config-T1.yml config.yml
    pup deploy

After the first deploy completes::

    cp config-T2.yml config.yml
    pup deploy

Note that if you remove a node from an already deployed group, it can take up to
one hour for it's IPMI IP lease to expire. If the node is moved to a new subnet
before the lease expires you will not be able to access the nodes IPMI system
until it renews it's IP lease in the new subnet. To avoid this, you can manually
power cycle the node.  Alternately, you can make your new config file the active
config file::

    cp config-my-new-group.yml config.yml

then use ipmitool to reset the BMC::

    ipmitool -I lanplus -H 192.168.30.21 -U ADMIN -P admin mc reset cold

then immediately run::

    pup config --mgmt-switches

Commit message:

User guide (#128)
* docs: Add initial software install documentation

* docs: Additional software installation content

Modify 'Using the pup program' and 'Multiple Tenant' support
sections.

* feat: Add 'Under development' note

Add 'Under development' note to Run-Software-Install.rst.
Spell check source.

* chore: Add remaining doc source

* docs: Add creating software install modules

docs/Multi-Tenant.rst, after:

.. highlight:: none

Multiple Tenant Support
=======================

POWER-Up has the ability to segment a physical cluster into multiple isolated
groups of nodes, allowing multiple users / tenants to use the cluster at the same
time while maintaining complete isolation between tenants.

The process of sub-dividing a cluster into multiple groups is simple. You create a
config.yml file for each group of nodes and deploy the groups one at a time. Each
group must have a unique PXE and IPMI subnet and vlan number. The mgmt network can
be common for all groups. POWER-Up creates a container and isolated networks on the
deployer for each tenant in the cluster. A symbolic link to the inventory.yml file
for each group is created in the power-up directory with the name inventoryn.yml
where n is the number of the pxe vlan for the group.

    .. _fig-multi-tenant:

    .. figure:: _images/MultiTenantCluster.png
        :height: 350
        :align: center

        POWER-Up Support for multiple tenants

As an example, the figure above shows a basic cluster with four nodes. To configure
these into two groups of two nodes, create a config file for each group. Edit the
deployer section of each config file and under the client subsection, specify a
unique container_ipaddr, bridge_ipaddr and vlan for the ipmi and pxe networks
for each group of nodes.

For example, the two groups could be configured as below;

Group 1::

    deployer:
        networks:
            mgmt:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  interface_ipaddr: 192.168.16.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
            client:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: ipmi
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.30.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.30.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 30
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: pxe
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.40.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.40.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 40


Group 2::

    deployer:
        networks:
            mgmt:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  interface_ipaddr: 192.168.16.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
            client:
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: ipmi
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.31.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.31.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 31
                - device: enP10p1s0f0
                  type: pxe
                  container_ipaddr: 192.168.41.2
                  bridge_ipaddr: 192.168.41.3
                  netmask: 255.255.255.0
                  vlan: 41


Next, edit the switch ports list in the node_templates section of each config file;

Group 1::

    node_templates:
        - label: ubuntu1604-node
          ipmi:
              userid: ADMIN
              password: admin
          os:
              profile: ubuntu-16.04-server-ppc64el
              users:
                  - name: user1
                    password: $6$Utk.IILMG9.$EepS/sIgD4aA.qYQ3voZL9yI3/5Q4vv.p2s4sSmfCLAJlLAuaEmXDizDaBmJYGqHpobwpU2l4rJW.uUY4WNyv.
                    groups: sudo
              install_device: /dev/sdj
          physical_interfaces:
              ipmi:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    ports:
                        - 1
                        - 3
              pxe:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    interface: pxe-ifc
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 2
                        - 4
              data:
                  - switch: data1
                    interface: static_1
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 5
                        - 6

Group 2::

    node_templates:
        - label: ubuntu1604-node
          ipmi:
              userid: ADMIN
              password: admin
          os:
              profile: ubuntu-16.04-server-ppc64el
              users:
                  - name: user1
                    password: $6$Utk.IILMG9.$EepS/sIgD4aA.qYQ3voZL9yI3/5Q4vv.p2s4sSmfCLAJlLAuaEmXDizDaBmJYGqHpobwpU2l4rJW.uUY4WNyv.
                    groups: sudo
              install_device: /dev/sdj
          physical_interfaces:
              ipmi:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    ports:
                        - 5
                        - 7
              pxe:
                  - switch: mgmt1
                    interface: pxe-ifc
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 6
                        - 8
              data:
                  - switch: data1
                    interface: static_1
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 7
                        - 9
              data:
                  - switch: data1
                    interface: static_2
                    rename: true
                    ports:
                        - 8
                        - 10

For a complete config file for a basic cluster, See :ref:`Appendix-D <appendix_d>`

Assuming your two config files are named config-T1.yml and config.T2.yml and
residing in the power-up directory, to deploy the two groups::

    pup deploy config-T1.yml

After the first deploy completes::

    pup deploy config-T2.yml

**Note**

POWER-Up does not currently support the execution of two deploys at the same time.
When deploying multiple groups of nodes, the groups must be deployed sequentially.

Note that if you move a node from an already deployed group to a new group,
it can take up to one hour for it's IPMI IP lease to expire. If the node is
moved to a new subnet before the lease expires you will not be able to access
the nodes IPMI system until it renews it's IP lease in the new subnet.
To avoid this, you can manually cycle power to the node.  Alternately, you can use
the ipmitool to reset the BMC of the node to be moved::

    ipmitool -I lanplus -H 192.168.30.21 -U ADMIN -P admin mc reset cold

then immediately run::

    pup config --mgmt-switches new-group-config.yml
