docs/OPCG_front_matter.rst, before:


	
.. .. sectnum::
..    :depth: 3

.. .. contents:: Table of Contents
..    :backlinks: none

Document Preface and Scope
==========================

This document is a User's guide for the OpenPOWER Cluster Genesis
toolkit. It is targeted at all users of the toolkit. Users are expected
to have a working knowledge of Ethernet networking and Linux.


Document Control
----------------

Upon initial publication, this document will be stored on Github

Revision History
----------------


+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 0.9    | 11 Oct 2016   | Beta release               |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 1.0    | 24 Jan 2017   | initial external release   |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 1.0    | 4 Feb 2017    | Fixes and updates          |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+

.. raw:: html

   <div class="caption">

Table 1: Revision History

.. raw:: html

   </div>

Related Documentation
---------------------

+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Document Name                                  | Location / Owner                                                                           |
+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Lenovo Application Guide For Networking OS 8.3 | http://systemx.lenovofiles.com/help/topic/com.lenovo.rackswitch.g8052.doc/G8052_AG_8-3.pdf |
+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

docs: Update documentation for release-1.1
Update version number.

Add IPL manual setup procedures.

Fix link to recipes on github.

Add link to Mellanox docs in related documentation.

Other formatting fixes.

Change-Id: Ife1ab25bf12eb498313f5055aaf4b55812bf0514

docs/OPCG_front_matter.rst, after:


	
.. .. sectnum::
..    :depth: 3

.. .. contents:: Table of Contents
..    :backlinks: none

Document Preface and Scope
==========================

This document is a User's guide for the OpenPOWER Cluster Genesis
toolkit. It is targeted at all users of the toolkit. Users are expected
to have a working knowledge of Ethernet networking and Linux.


Document Control
----------------

Upon initial publication, this document will be stored on Github

Revision History
----------------


+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 0.9    | 11 Oct 2016   | Beta release               |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 1.0    | 24 Jan 2017   | initial external release   |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 1.0    | 4 Feb 2017    | Fixes and updates          |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+
| 1.1    | 24 Feb 2017   | Release 1.1 with LAG and   |    |
|        |               | MLAG support               |    |
+--------+---------------+----------------------------+----+

.. raw:: html

   <div class="caption">

Table 1: Revision History

.. raw:: html

   </div>

Related Documentation
---------------------

+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Document Name                                  | Location / Owner                                                                           |
+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Lenovo Application Guide For Networking OS 8.3 | http://systemx.lenovofiles.com/help/topic/com.lenovo.rackswitch.g8052.doc/G8052_AG_8-3.pdf |
+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Mellanox MLNX-OS® User Manual for Ethernet     | See instructions for access at https://community.mellanox.com/docs/DOC-2188                |
+------------------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
